[Music]
hello good morning watching breakfast
with louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you today at six o'clock
the target for offering a vaccine to all
over 50s and people in high-risk groups
in the uk
is met three days early
high streets and beer gardens are busy
once again as lockdown restrictions ease
in england
honestly it feels so good it just feels
like we're out of prison
it is a freezing cold morning here in
shropshire where some people are waking
up after spending their first night
under canvas because
camping and caravanning restarted
yesterday as england's great outdoors
reopened for business good morning can
sam allardyce pull off yet another
great escape as west brom secure
back-to-back league wins for the first
time this season
boosting their hopes of survival
morning it's not just in shropshire it's
freezing this morning temperatures are
widely below freezing
there's a widespread frost there's some
patchy fog but a lot of us will have a
dry sunny day with just a few showers
i'll have all the details coming up
good morning to you it's tuesday the
13th of april our main story for you
all people are aged over 50 and those in
high risk
groups have now been offered a first
dose of a coronavirus vaccine
it means the government has met its
target of offering a job to the top nine
priority groups
by the 15th of april further details of
the next stage of the rollout are
expected to be announced later this week
our health editor hugh pim has this
report
the progress of the vaccination program
in the uk has been widely acclaimed
and the target of all nine priority
groups being offered a first job by
april the 15th has been met as expected
that covers all those aged 50 and over
nhs
and care staff and the clinically
vulnerable a total of 32.2 million
people have had a first dose
nhs england said that 19 out of 20 of
those most at risk of the virus
have been vaccinated the highest risk
population in the in the country
are vaccinated and will have protection
from severe disease and hospitalization
we've got a long way to go
the next group coming forward group 10
they're 40 to 50 year olds
really need to step forward and take the
vaccination when they're offered
the pace has slowed this month because
of supply issues with the oxford
astrazeneca jab
vaccination centers are concentrating on
second doses
but today capacity will be boosted with
the vaccine provided by the american
company moderna
being given to patients in england it
was made available in scotland and wales
last week
further information on the next steps of
the programme are expected in the next
few days
with the expert committee the jcvi
advising nhs leaders and ministers on
how to proceed with immunising those
under 50. it's understood that
invitations to people in their late 40s
will go out soon
ministers have indicated that subject to
supplies being available
the target of offering a first dose to
all adults by the end of july
is still on track but in a reminder of
the continuing threat
it was announced last night that surge
testing will be introduced in two london
boroughs onesworth and lambeth because
of more cases of the south african
variant
officials will be closely monitoring the
spread of variance
and the number of infections following
the partial easing of restrictions
ahead of decisions on moving to the next
stage
hupim bbc news many businesses across
the uk have opened their doors to
customers for the first time
in months after coronavirus rules were
eased yesterday
the most significant changes came in
england where shops hairdressers and pup
gardens were allowed to reopen tim
muffett reports
finally a sense of release it just feels
like
we're out of prison i feel good i've
obviously just been trapped inside doing
the same thing i've worked
go to sleep working to sleep it's just
nice being like out and about
the streets of soho and london have been
deserted for so long
last night the energy and alcohol
returned
your first time out in months what's it
been like amazing
it's lovely just to see people out just
to have some
kind of normality like just to have life
around us
missed it so much across england
yesterday there were big steps back to
normality
this sports center in saint austin in
cornwall one of many reopening its doors
usually i hate getting out bed on a
monday morning but last night i was
dancing around the house and my son
thought i was crazy
in lithum in lancashire shirley was able
to return to her favorite shop
it's just nice to be back and see
people i know so well great to have you
back shirley it's lovely
in birmingham a chance for a grandma to
be to pick up some essentials
my my daughter's having a baby so lots
of baby clothes
towels pajama bottoms
but for many it was that pint in a pub
garden that tasted
so sweet taste one second
oh that's beautiful well worth the wait
well there's no kicking out time by law
all drinkers are already
outside but pubs and bars are now
starting to close
for the first time in months it's time
for drinkers
to head home it was just nice to just be
socializing with people and just be out
and
i feel like it's been so many months
that we've been away from our friends
bit of cleaning up today yeah of course
of course you know when is everybody
left i have to
sweep
after a brutal year for pubs and bars
for some business owners at least
sweeping the streets has never felt so
satisfying
tim muffett bbc news so certainly busier
times
and the reopening of non-essential shops
in england and wales that brought cues
to
towns and cities for the first time in
months and sarah corker
is an outlet shopping center in cheshire
for us this morning can tell us a little
bit about
the numbers there and everywhere else
morning
yes good morning shoppers were out in
force yesterday weren't they
i'm here in cheshire oaks it's a
designer retail outlet
with more than 150 stores and it was
incredibly busy yesterday
this of course is a huge week for retail
shops reopening for the first time after
more than three months
in forced hibernation and as you say
their
shops high streets across england and
wales
were busy with queues weren't they there
were lots of people
eager to get into stores like primark
debenhams jd sports to name just a few
and i think that really shows that there
is this pent-up
demand and lots of people just keen to
get out and about
into the shops once again businesses
they've also spent
huge amounts of money making sure their
premises are covered secure
we've all got used to the stickers on
the floor the one-way systems
and a bit of queuing but there was some
subdued demand
in other areas now if we take a closer
look
at some of the numbers it really helps
to paint a picture
as to what was really going on so if we
compare visitor numbers from yesterday
with a similar time last year football
was actually significantly up
i don't think that's a big surprise
because this time last year
we were going into the first lockdown so
to get a clearer picture we have to
compare footfall
with pre-pandemic levels and what that
actually shows is that visitor numbers
on high streets across the uk are
actually
down by 16 so i think that what that
shows really is some people
still feeling a bit anxious about coming
out onto the high street
and it really is going to take some time
for the retail sector to
recover fully from this economic shock
we've talked a lot haven't we about how
online shopping
has really boomed during lockdown the
pandemic accelerated that shift
towards internet shopping and what
retail parks and high streets need to do
is work a lot harder to entice customers
back
in sufficient numbers sarah thank you
very much indeed thank you
there's been a second night of
confrontation between police and
protesters in
brooklyn centre the minneapolis suburb
where a black man was shot dead by
police on sunday
officers fired tear gas as crowds defied
an overnight curfew meanwhile the trial
of the officer accused of killing george
floyd in the same city
is entering its final stages as peter
bose reports
another tense night unrest on the
streets of minneapolis
in response to the police killing of
another black man
[Applause]
this was already a city on edge
the renewed anger and frustration
follows the death of dante wright
a 20-year-old motorist who was shot by a
female officer
after he was stopped for a minor offense
he'd attempted to escape when the police
tried to arrest him on a previous
warrant this body cam footage shows
what the police chief said was a fatal
mistake
it is my belief that the officer had the
intention to deploy their taser
but instead shot mr right with a single
bullet
the swift release of the body cam video
appears to have been an attempt by the
police
to show transparency in the face of
immediate criticism
president joe biden said he'd watched
what he called the graphic footage
and he was waiting for investigation to
determine whether the shooting
was an accident in the meantime he said
people
should stay calm there is absolutely no
justification
none for looting no justification
for violence peaceful protest
understandable and the fact is that you
know
we do know that the anger pain and
trauma that exists in the black
community
the minneapolis trial of derek chauvin
the former police officer accused of
murdering george floyd
is moving into its final stages your
experience
over the next few days derek chauvin's
lawyers will present the jury with their
case
as the trial winds up extra security
members of the national guard
are being drafted in around the
courthouse and across the city
as emotions run high peter bowes bbc
news
los angeles ministers will face further
questions in the comments today over
david cameron's lobbing of the collapsed
financial firm green seal capital
a spokesperson for the former prime
minister said he would be glad to take
part in the independent review of the
firm's activities
announced by downey street yesterday
they've been caused with the rules
around lobbying to be tightened
prince william and his brother prince
harry have paid tribute to their
grandfather the duke of edinburgh ahead
of his funeral this coming saturday
in separate statements prince william
described him as an extraordinary man
with a mischievous sense of humor
while prince harry said his grandfather
was a man of service honor and great
humor calling him
a legend of banter
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news